Our project will focus on the neuroidal model, a biologically plausible computational model
proposed by Leslie Valiant in 1994 [2]. The model consists of a set of
computational units connected to eachother by directional synapses to form a DAG. Researchers have managed to perform
supervised learning of classification using this model. We hope to apply some of the tools from this
class to understanding this model. 
We will begin by studying the model itself and by comparing the mechanisms of the neuroidal
model with hypotheses from the field of neuroscience about mechanisms of the human brain.
We will then turn to algorithms implemented on this model, particularly those proposed by
Valiant in 2005 [3] and Papadimitriou in 2015 [1]. In this phase of the project we seek to understand
the theoretical performance of these algorithms (in terms of both computational complexity and
learning ability).
In our write-up, we will present a concise overview of the model, connections to neuroscience
literature, and a comparison of Valiant’s and Papadimitriou’s algorithms.
As a possible extension to our project, we can implement the algorithms proposed by Valiant
and Papadimitriou and test their empirical performance on learning tasks described in the papers.
We can also try to extend Papadimitriou’s simulations and/or analysis to learning overlapping (in
addition to disjoint) representations. Papadimitriou and Vampala provide proofs for disjoint representations of items; we hope to extend their proof to overlapping items. For either extension, we can also include the results of our
simulations, access to our implementations, and any insights gained from attempting to extend
previous work to overlapping items.

[1] C. H. Papadimitriou and S. S. Vempala, “Cortical Learning via Prediction,” JMLR: Workshop and Conference
Proceedings, vol. 40, p. 21, 2015.
[2] L. G. Valiant, Circuits of the Mind. New York, NY, USA: Oxford University Press, Inc., 1994.
[3] ——, “Memorization and association on a realistic neural model,” Neural Computation, vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 527–555,
Mar. 2005.